Week 6 Reflective Journal Rough Draft

Week 6 was both really amazing and really hard. I feel like I’m really starting to come into myself as a Front End Developer, being able to work in all of the languages to manipulate code into something that looks like a halfway decent webpage. At the same time APIs really wreck my brain. I feel like it’s something that will get easier as time goes along, and something that later tools might be able to really help with.

Every week Dave introduces some new technologies that make life so much better and yet add more to the never-ending stream of knowledge that we have to learn. It’s getting hard to keep up, and I find myself having trouble with how to do a lot of the things such as hooking up scripts into npm and really getting a solid automated build process going. I’m hoping that at some point I’ll have the time to really delve and practice a lot of these things but that’s hard to do with the constant work.

I think that SASS is a very excellent tool and I’m very pleased with a lot of the features that are built into it. I feel like I haven’t even touched the surface though and I really want to take the code school courses and really take advantage of all the tools it has to offer.

Our weekend project for week 6 was to just build something and I loved every minute of it. This project more than anything else has taught me lessons about working on a team and really put everything we have learned into practice. Our project idea was a simple one, combine web speech API, an api that can translate voice into text, and upload that text to the cloud. Unfortunately it didn’t get accomplished. The tools that cloud services provide expect some sort of file that’s already on your computer. I am certain that if I had a web page full of images that were uploaded there from my computer I could have easily saved those to the cloud. However I could not find any sort of way to take my text and put it into a recognizable form that would be eaten by either google drive or dropbox. I had to settle with making some sort of blob object that could be downloaded to the local hard drive, which wasn’t so bad. At least the application had a modicum of functionality.

Overall I’m still feeling tired and I feel more overwhelmed everyday, but the end is in sight. Three more weeks and we’ll be done with lectures and onto making a final project. I still have no clue what I’ll do, but I’m sure ideas will take form as we power through the upcoming weeks. God willing I keep up.
